DOCS-799: Confetti bot tutorial (#1293)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/get-started/confetti-bot.md

![Create component panel, with the name attribute filled as start, type attribute filled as motor and model attribute filled as gpio.](/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/app-motor-create.png)

After clicking **Create Component**, there is a pin assignment type toggle.
Select **In1/In2** since that is compatible with the type of input our motor controller expects.
In the drop downs for A/In1 and B/In2, choose `13 GPIO 27` and `15 GPIO 22` and for PWM choose `11 GPIO 17` corresponding to our wiring.

In the **Board** drop-down within attributes, choose the name of the board the motor controller is wired to (“party”).
This will ensure that the board initializes before the motor driver when the robot boots up.

![Motor component configured in the Viam app, the component tab is named start, with a type attribute motor and model attribute gpio. It has the attributes as of the board as party, encoder as non-encoded, max rpm as 1000, component pin assignment type as In1/In2, enable pins as neither, a/In1 as 13 GPIO 27, b/In2 as 15 GPIO 22, pwm as 11 GPIO 17.](/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/app-motor-attribute.png)

> Click **SAVE CONFIG** at the bottom of the screen.

Author: ```suggestion
Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the screen.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Raw JSON" %}}

> On the [`Raw JSON` tab](/manage/configuration/#the-config-tab), replace the configuration with the following JSON configuration for your board and your motor:

Author: ```suggestion
On the [**Raw JSON** tab](/manage/configuration/#the-config-tab), replace the configuration with the following JSON configuration for your board and your motor:
```

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "party",
      "type": "board",
      "model": "pi",
      "attributes": {},
      "depends_on": []
    },
    {
      "name": "start",
      "type": "motor",
      "model": "gpio",
      "attributes": {
        "pins": {
          "a": "13",
          "b": "15",
          "pwm": "11"
        },
        "board": "local",
        "max_rpm": 1000
      },
      "depends_on": [
        "local"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Click **Save config** in the bottom left corner of the screen.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Let’s test our configuration from the [Control tab](/manage/fleet/robots/#control).

> Go to board panel, set the pin connected to your motor (in our case pin 37) to high, and your motor should turn.

Author: ```suggestion
Go to the board panel, set the pin connected to your motor (in our case pin 37) to high, and your motor should turn.
```

## Attach components to the enclosure

> Now that you tested your motor in the app and confirmed everything works, you can finish assembling your confetti bot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you have tested your motor in the app and confirmed that everything works, you can finish assembling your confetti bot.
```

    <img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/install-driver-2.jpg" alt="Front view of the motor driver being installed inside the 3D printed enclosure with screws." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

2. Slip the Raspberry Pi into the designated slot in the enclosure.
Be careful of the wires during this so they don’t pop off.

    <img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/install-pi-1.jpg" alt="Back view of the Raspberry Pi being installed inside the 3D printed enclosure within the designated slot." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

    <img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/install-pi-2.jpg" alt="Front view of the Raspberry Pi being installed inside the 3D printed enclosure within the designated slot." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

3. Add the confetti cannon to the enclosure by tightening the 3D printed holder around the confetti socket using one M2.5 x 16mm screw and a M2.5 nut.

> Then connect this piece with the front panel.

Author: ```suggestion
Then connect the enclosure to the front panel.
```

    <img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/install-cannon-front.jpg" alt="Front photo of the confetti cannon attached to the 3D printed parts." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

    <img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/install-cannon-side.jpg" alt="Side photo of the confetti cannon attached to the 3D printed parts." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

> 4. Now we have to attach the other circle holder (the one that attaches to the motor head) on the base of the confetti cannon to hold its place, then the motor and secure with a screw from the side.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Next, attach the 3d-printed circular holder to the base of the confetti cannon to hold its place, then to the motor.
Secure the two together with a screw from the side.
```

> Depending on your motor size, the screw size may change.

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on your motor size, you may need a different screw size.
```

### Final design

The final design, fully wired and put together looks like this:

<img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/final-assembly-top.jpg" alt="Top view of the final assembly of the confetti cannon and 3D printed/laser cutted pieces, with a battery and a red button on a white table." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

<img src="/tutorials/img/confetti-bot/final-assembly-side.jpg" alt="Side view of the final assembly of the confetti cannon and 3D printed/laser cutted pieces, with a battery and a red button on a white table." style="min-height:275px; max-height:350px" class="center-if-small">

## Write Python code to control the confetti bot

The following section explains the code for the confetti bot.
The completed code for this project is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/devrel-demos/tree/main/confetti_bot).
If you copy the code from this link, don’t forget to change your robot address and secret so it connects to your own confetti robot.

> Navigate to the **CODE SAMPLE** tab on the Viam app, toggle include secrets, select Python as the language, and scroll down to click the **Copy Code** button.

Author: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Code sample** tab on the Viam app, toggle include secrets, select Python as the language, and scroll down to click the **Copy** button.
```

Paste this into a new Python file in your favorite code editor to connect to your robot.

At the top of the code, your board and motor components are imported:

```python
from viam.components.board import Board
from viam.components.motor import Motor
```

In your `main` function add the following code, which instantiates a variable `party` as the board and `start` as the motor:

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
party = Board.from_robot(robot, "party")
# Note that the pin supplied is the pin we use. Please change this to the pin you are using.
party_return_value = await party.gpio_pin_by_name("37")
print(f"party gpio_pin_by_name return value: {party_return_value.get()}")

start = Motor.from_robot(robot, "start")
start_return_value = await start.is_moving()
print(f"start is_moving return value: {start_return_value}")
```

> The only other code you need to add to your main function is a while loop to check if the button is being pressed.

Author: ```suggestion
The only other code you need to add to your `main` function is a while loop to check if the button is being pressed.
```
